README.md, before:

# Summary
- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [LAB Requirements](#Requirements)
- [Performance testing](#performance-testing)
- [OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7](#OpenShift-Data-Foundation-v47)
   -  [Order your lab environment from RHPDS](#Order-your-lab-environment-from-RHPDS)
   -  [Deploy 4 OSD nodes in  2 AZs with 3rd AZ and an arbiter node](#Deploy-4-OSD-nodes-in-2-AZs-with-3rd-AZ-with-an-arbiter-node)
   -  [Deploy ODF v4.7 Stretched Cluster](#Deploy-ODF-v47-Stretched-Cluster)

## Introduction 
This is in an interactive ansible role for performance testing with synthetic benchmarking workloads, the purpose is to simulate different workload profiles based on your inputs for BLock, File and S3 OBC in OpenShift Data Foundation.  
The ansible role includes OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7 Operator deployment and infrastructure provisioning for testing Metro stretched cluster.  
If you already deployed an ODF cluster you can move to [Performance testing](#performance-testing)

## Requirements
- OpenShift Container Platform v4.3+ 
- OpenShift Container Storage v4.3+ (AKA OCS and now ODF)
- OpenShift authentication through kubeconfig file, modifify the following variable accordingly:
```bash
roles/rbd_ceph_performance/defaults/main.yml
# kubeconfig path
kubeconfig: '$HOME/.kube/config'
```

- Supported infrastructures: AWS IPI, VMware UPI (Other platforms have not been tested yet but the tool should work)
- OpenShift management node with admin serviceaccount
- `oc` client with kubeconfig file authentication
- `git` client
- Ansible at least v2.8 

## Performance testing
### Just click on the image below ;)
[![Watch the video](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/video_picture.png)](https://youtu.be/KssJ35seKWU)



## OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7
The OpenShift Data Foundation deployment is based on version 4.7 (RC), the ODF operator container image is:  
`image: quay.io/rhceph-dev/ocs-registry:latest-4.7` 
### Order your lab environment from RHPDS
![Order the lab from RHPDS](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/1.png)  
  
### Deploy ODF v4.7 Stretched Cluster  
  
Please check that you're in this condition before start (the output could be different based on your AWS region):    
```bash
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api
```
```
NAME                                   DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a   1         1         1       1           8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b   1         1         1       1           8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c   1         1         1       1           8d
```
The provisioning infrastructure tas will take the configuration of the existing machinesets, change for an ODF node with xTB EBS and automatically create and scale machinesets. The final result will be 3 new machinesets:
- all the vms are using instance type: m5.4xlarge
- 2 vms will be create in AZ with label `datacenter1` then this machineset has replica=2
- 2 vms will be create in AZ with label `datacenter2` then this machineset has replica=2
- Each of the above instances are configured to use 4TB EBS volume that will be partioned with 2x2TB partitions
- 1 vm will be deployed in a 3rd AZ with label `arbiter`

First: Install ansible
```
sudo yum install -y ansible 
```
Sencond: Clone the github repo
```
git clone https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance.git
```
Then move to the repo
```
cd ocs_performance
```
And now you're good to run the ansible role
```
ansible-playbook use_playbook.yml
```

![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/2.png) 

There will be a pause of 6 mins, just the time to get the new instances up&running  
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/3.png) 

You can open a new shell and verify if the new machinesets and machines are provisioned/running
```bash
watch oc get machines -n openshift-machine-api
```
```
NAME                                         PHASE         TYPE         REGION      ZONE         AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-0                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-1                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-2                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a-9mjh9   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b-q4x9p   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c-vj85z   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
ocs-worker-west-1a-nh6jx                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   2m43s
ocs-worker-west-1a-wttgg                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   2m43s
ocs-worker-west-1b-g4ns7                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   2m42s
ocs-worker-west-1b-vsfv6                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   2m42s
ocs-worker-west-1c-z7dwp                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   2m41s
```

```
NAME                                         PHASE     TYPE         REGION      ZONE         AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-0                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-1                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-2                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a-9mjh9   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b-q4x9p   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c-vj85z   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
ocs-worker-west-1a-nh6jx                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   5m32s
ocs-worker-west-1a-wttgg                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   5m32s
ocs-worker-west-1b-g4ns7                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   5m31s
ocs-worker-west-1b-vsfv6                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   5m31s
ocs-worker-west-1c-z7dwp                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   5m30s
```
After 6 minutes the playbook will try to partition the 4TB EBS in 2x2TB partitions. Please make sure that the playbook will return the following output per node (if it doesn't work you can run again the ansible role and try option #5 PARTITION)
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/4.png) 
```bash
for i in {1..2}; do oc get nodes -l topology.kubernetes.io/zone=datacenter$i -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}' | while read node; do oc debug node/$node -- lsblk; done; done
```
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/5.png) 
```
  msg:
  - NAME        MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
  - 'nvme1n1     259:0    0    4T  0 disk '
  - '|-nvme1n1p1 259:6    0    2T  0 part '
  - '`-nvme1n1p2 259:7    0    2T  0 part '
```  
When partitions are created the playbook will take 3 minutes to deploy:
  - LSO auto-discovery
  - LSO local-deviceset  
  - Create the pvs  

Check the available pvs with:  
```bash
watch oc get pv
```
If the pvs created are 8 pvs then it will continue to deploy ODF Metro Stretched cluster  

## Storage site failure simulation  
Is recommended to configure storage classs `ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd` as default storage class.  
You can deploy whatever stateful application that consume ODF persistent volume claims. In our example we are going to use pgbench with 4 parallel DBs.  
You can follow the video for a quick demo
[![Watch the video](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/site_failure_demo.png)](https://youtu.be/DpyakXQjZq4?t=1138)

Commit message:

Added runtime parameter on fio command, changed example variables, added parser, fixed README.md

README.md, after:

# Summary
- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [LAB Requirements](#Requirements)
- [Performance testing](#performance-testing)
- [OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7](#OpenShift-Data-Foundation-v47)
   -  [Order your lab environment from RHPDS](#Order-your-lab-environment-from-RHPDS)
   -  [Deploy 4 OSD nodes in  2 AZs with 3rd AZ and an arbiter node](#Deploy-4-OSD-nodes-in-2-AZs-with-3rd-AZ-with-an-arbiter-node)
   -  [Deploy ODF v4.7 Stretched Cluster](#Deploy-ODF-v47-Stretched-Cluster)

## Introduction 
This is in an interactive ansible role for performance testing with synthetic benchmarking workloads, the purpose is to simulate different workload profiles based on your inputs for BLock, File and S3 OBC in OpenShift Data Foundation.  
The ansible role includes OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7 Operator deployment and infrastructure provisioning for testing Metro stretched cluster.  
If you already deployed an ODF cluster you can move to [Performance testing](#performance-testing)

## Requirements
- OpenShift Container Platform v4.3+ 
- OpenShift Container Storage v4.3+ (AKA OCS and now ODF)
- OpenShift authentication through kubeconfig file, modifify the following variable accordingly:
```bash
roles/rbd_ceph_performance/defaults/main.yml
# kubeconfig path
kubeconfig: '$HOME/.kube/config'
```

- Supported infrastructures: AWS IPI, VMware UPI (Other platforms have not been tested yet but the tool should work)
- OpenShift management node with admin serviceaccount
- `oc` client with kubeconfig file authentication
- `git` client
- Ansible at least v2.8 

## Performance testing
### Just click on the image below ;)
[![Watch the video](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/video_picture.png)](https://youtu.be/KssJ35seKWU)
### FIO test non interactive 
It is possible to use the role rbd_ceph_performance_no_interactive to execute fio using a variable file. 
Into the vars_fio folder there are some example variable files, you can launch the playbook using the following syntax. 
```bash 
ansible-playbook -e "@vars_fio/cephfs/4m-blocks-seq-reads.yaml" use_playbook_no_interactive.yml
``` 

#### Parse of playbook output
It is possible to use a simple tool to simplify the analysis of the playbook results stored in ~/.ansible_async/ folder. 
```bash
python3 parser.py file1 file2 file3 ... filen
``` 

## OpenShift Data Foundation v4.7
The OpenShift Data Foundation deployment is based on version 4.7 (RC), the ODF operator container image is:  
`image: quay.io/rhceph-dev/ocs-registry:latest-4.7` 
### Order your lab environment from RHPDS
![Order the lab from RHPDS](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/1.png)  
  
### Deploy ODF v4.7 Stretched Cluster  
  
Please check that you're in this condition before start (the output could be different based on your AWS region):    
```bash
oc get machineset -n openshift-machine-api
```
```
NAME                                   DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AVAILABLE   AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a   1         1         1       1           8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b   1         1         1       1           8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c   1         1         1       1           8d
```
The provisioning infrastructure tas will take the configuration of the existing machinesets, change for an ODF node with xTB EBS and automatically create and scale machinesets. The final result will be 3 new machinesets:
- all the vms are using instance type: m5.4xlarge
- 2 vms will be create in AZ with label `datacenter1` then this machineset has replica=2
- 2 vms will be create in AZ with label `datacenter2` then this machineset has replica=2
- Each of the above instances are configured to use 4TB EBS volume that will be partioned with 2x2TB partitions
- 1 vm will be deployed in a 3rd AZ with label `arbiter`

First: Install ansible
```
sudo yum install -y ansible 
```
Sencond: Clone the github repo
```
git clone https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance.git
```
Then move to the repo
```
cd ocs_performance
```
And now you're good to run the ansible role
```
ansible-playbook use_playbook.yml
```

![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/2.png) 

There will be a pause of 6 mins, just the time to get the new instances up&running  
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/3.png) 

You can open a new shell and verify if the new machinesets and machines are provisioned/running
```bash
watch oc get machines -n openshift-machine-api
```
```
NAME                                         PHASE         TYPE         REGION      ZONE         AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-0                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-1                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-2                  Running	   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a-9mjh9   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b-q4x9p   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c-vj85z   Running	   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
ocs-worker-west-1a-nh6jx                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   2m43s
ocs-worker-west-1a-wttgg                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   2m43s
ocs-worker-west-1b-g4ns7                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   2m42s
ocs-worker-west-1b-vsfv6                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   2m42s
ocs-worker-west-1c-z7dwp                     Provisioned   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   2m41s
```

```
NAME                                         PHASE     TYPE         REGION      ZONE         AGE
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-0                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-1                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-master-2                  Running   m5.2xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1a-9mjh9   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1b-q4x9p   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   8d
cluster-c1f4-kpw7v-worker-eu-west-1c-vj85z   Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   8d
ocs-worker-west-1a-nh6jx                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   5m32s
ocs-worker-west-1a-wttgg                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1a   5m32s
ocs-worker-west-1b-g4ns7                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   5m31s
ocs-worker-west-1b-vsfv6                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1b   5m31s
ocs-worker-west-1c-z7dwp                     Running   m5.4xlarge   eu-west-1   eu-west-1c   5m30s
```
After 6 minutes the playbook will try to partition the 4TB EBS in 2x2TB partitions. Please make sure that the playbook will return the following output per node (if it doesn't work you can run again the ansible role and try option #5 PARTITION)
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/4.png) 
```bash
for i in {1..2}; do oc get nodes -l topology.kubernetes.io/zone=datacenter$i -o jsonpath='{range .items[*]}{.metadata.name}{"\n"}{end}' | while read node; do oc debug node/$node -- lsblk; done; done
```
![ODF deployment](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/5.png) 
```
  msg:
  - NAME        MAJ:MIN RM  SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
  - 'nvme1n1     259:0    0    4T  0 disk '
  - '|-nvme1n1p1 259:6    0    2T  0 part '
  - '`-nvme1n1p2 259:7    0    2T  0 part '
```  
When partitions are created the playbook will take 3 minutes to deploy:
  - LSO auto-discovery
  - LSO local-deviceset  
  - Create the pvs  

Check the available pvs with:  
```bash
watch oc get pv
```
If the pvs created are 8 pvs then it will continue to deploy ODF Metro Stretched cluster  

## Storage site failure simulation  
Is recommended to configure storage classs `ocs-storagecluster-ceph-rbd` as default storage class.  
You can deploy whatever stateful application that consume ODF persistent volume claims. In our example we are going to use pgbench with 4 parallel DBs.  
You can follow the video for a quick demo
[![Watch the video](https://github.com/ctorres80/ocs_performance/blob/master/roles/rbd_ceph_performance/files/site_failure_demo.png)](https://youtu.be/DpyakXQjZq4?t=1138)
